AGENTFLOW ENGINEERING KNOWLEDGE BASE

1. PROJECT OVERVIEW

AgentFlow is an AI Engineering Assistant designed to demonstrate a production-oriented GenAI application architecture.

The system accepts a user's natural-language question and uses a LangGraph workflow to determine the most appropriate way to answer it.

AgentFlow supports four execution routes:

1. RAG - retrieves relevant information from the internal knowledge base.
2. Web Search - searches the internet for current information.
3. MCP - calls an external tool through the Model Context Protocol.
4. Direct Reasoning - answers using the language model without external retrieval.

The application is exposed through FastAPI and includes a lightweight web interface. The application is containerized using Docker and deployed as a web service.

2. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE

The main request flow is:

User
→ FastAPI
→ LangGraph Router
→ Selected execution route
→ Context or tool result
→ Gemini language model
→ Final answer
→ User

LangGraph is responsible for orchestrating the workflow.

The router uses a structured decision model with four possible routes: rag, web, mcp, and direct.

The final answer generation step receives the original user question together with any retrieved context or tool output.

3. RAG PIPELINE

AgentFlow uses Retrieval-Augmented Generation to answer questions using information stored in its internal knowledge base.

The RAG pipeline consists of:

1. Loading documents from the rag/documents directory.
2. Splitting documents into smaller chunks.
3. Generating vector embeddings for the chunks.
4. Storing embeddings in ChromaDB.
5. Retrieving the most relevant chunks for a user question.
6. Passing the retrieved context to the language model.
7. Generating a grounded final answer.

The current text splitter uses a chunk size of 500 characters with an overlap of 100 characters.

The retriever returns the top 3 relevant documents.

The embedding model used by AgentFlow is Gemini Embedding 001.

ChromaDB is used as the vector database.

RAG is preferred when the question is about information contained in the internal AgentFlow engineering knowledge base.

If the retrieved context does not contain enough information, AgentFlow should avoid inventing unsupported facts.

4. ROUTING LOGIC

The LangGraph router decides how a question should be processed.

RAG should be selected when the user asks about AgentFlow's internal architecture, implementation, engineering decisions, deployment, testing, or other information contained in the knowledge base.

Web Search should be selected when the question requires current or internet-based information.

MCP should be selected when the user asks AgentFlow to perform a supported calculation or use an MCP tool.

Direct Reasoning should be selected for general programming explanations, conceptual questions, or requests that do not require retrieval or external tools.

The routing decision is represented using a structured output model to reduce ambiguous route names.

5. MCP TOOL

AgentFlow includes an MCP server implemented using FastMCP.

The current MCP server exposes a calculate tool.

The calculate tool accepts a basic mathematical expression and returns the calculated result.

For example:

calculate("25 * 8 + 10")

returns:

210

The MCP server is launched by AgentFlow when the MCP route is selected.

This demonstrates how an AI agent can invoke an external tool rather than performing every operation through language-model reasoning.

The calculator currently validates characters before evaluation. It is intended as a demonstration tool and should be replaced with a stricter mathematical parser for production use.

6. WEB SEARCH

AgentFlow integrates Tavily for web search.

The web search tool receives a natural-language query and requests relevant search results.

The current implementation uses Tavily's basic search depth and retrieves up to five results.

Each result contains a title, content, and source URL.

Web search is useful for questions where the knowledge base may be outdated or does not contain the required information.

7. LANGUAGE MODEL

AgentFlow uses Google's Gemini models.

Gemini 3.5 Flash Lite is used for conversational reasoning and final answer generation.

Gemini Embedding 001 is used to create vector embeddings for the RAG pipeline.

The application reads the Google API key from the GOOGLE_API_KEY environment variable.

API keys are never stored in source code or committed to GitHub.

8. FASTAPI BACKEND

AgentFlow exposes a FastAPI backend.

The main endpoint is:

POST /chat

The endpoint accepts a question and returns the generated answer together with the route selected by the agent.

The health endpoint is:

GET /health

The health endpoint returns a simple service status and is used by the deployment platform to verify that the application is running.

The frontend is served by FastAPI.

9. DOCKER DEPLOYMENT

AgentFlow is containerized using Docker.

The Docker image uses Python 3.11.

The Docker build installs dependencies from requirements.txt and copies the application source into the container.

At container startup, the RAG ingestion process refreshes the ChromaDB collection before FastAPI starts.

The application listens on the PORT environment variable supplied by the deployment platform.

AgentFlow has been deployed as a Docker-based web service on Render.

10. TESTING

AgentFlow includes automated tests using pytest.

The tests cover core agent behavior and the MCP integration.

The project has previously passed four automated tests.

Important behaviors tested include route selection, agent responses, and MCP calculator functionality.

11. ENGINEERING DESIGN DECISIONS

LangGraph was selected because the project requires explicit workflow orchestration and conditional routing between multiple execution paths.

ChromaDB was selected because it provides a lightweight local vector database suitable for a portfolio-scale RAG system.

FastAPI was selected because it provides a simple, high-performance API layer for serving the AI workflow.

Docker was selected to make the application reproducible across development and deployment environments.

Tavily was selected to provide a dedicated web-search capability for current information.

FastMCP was selected to demonstrate tool integration through the Model Context Protocol.

12. CURRENT LIMITATIONS

The current ChromaDB data is rebuilt during container startup.

The MCP calculator is a demonstration implementation and should use a safer mathematical parser in a production environment.

The current knowledge base is primarily a single engineering document.

The application does not currently maintain long-term conversational memory.

The routing system uses a structured LLM decision and could be further improved with deterministic rules, confidence thresholds, or evaluation datasets.

13. FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS

Potential improvements include:

- Persistent vector storage for production deployment.
- More document formats such as PDF and Markdown.
- Hybrid keyword and vector retrieval.
- Retrieval quality evaluation.
- Reranking retrieved documents.
- Conversation memory.
- Additional MCP tools.
- Authentication and authorization.
- Streaming responses.
- Observability and tracing.
- Automated CI/CD.
- Agent evaluation datasets.
- Safer calculator execution.
- Human approval for sensitive tool actions.

14. ENGINEERING GOAL

The primary goal of AgentFlow is to demonstrate practical GenAI engineering rather than simply calling an LLM API.

The project combines LLM reasoning, structured routing, retrieval, vector databases, external search, tool calling, MCP, API development, testing, Docker containerization, and cloud deployment into one working system.

The architecture is intentionally modular so that individual tools, retrieval strategies, models, and workflow nodes can be replaced or extended without rewriting the entire application.